This program permits handle UX/NMR files coming from X32 or DMX.

version 26/01/2000
  slight change in the errno declaration, and in proto to make it more portable among unix flavor

version 6-nov-1997, corrected a bug with big/little endian
  for those PC/Linux out-there

version 8-dec-1995 corrected a bug in cache_mad.c for very assymetric dataset
   corrected also for badly configurated spectrometers,
   on which the field INSTRUM is empty.
   Is this case, the basic frequency default to 360Mhz (!)

version 1-june-1995, adapted to DMX


The shell script ux2cache.sh help in handling the program.
When transfering the experiment NAME=A EXPNO=1 from the spectrometer
to your machine you should :
create a directory on the target machine to hold the bruker files,
FTP in binary mode the files : acqu , acqus , acqu2 , acqu2s , ser
or use rcp -r
type ux2cache to convert (then answer the questions with directory name and
	gifa file name)

The program will create the file in GIFA standard format 

the shell script ux2cache.sh will automatize most of the work for you.

the shell script getnmr even make the transfer from the spectrometer

Be carefull when compiling this prgram that you should not use the -O
  option on HP-UX, since, due to a compiler bug, the program then
  does not work anymore.  See the makefile.

NOTE that:

The DMX data-sets, when acquired with the digital filter, present a large
  shift, which shows up as a VERY distorded line-base, like many waves.
      

This can be corrected with :
- a large 1st order correction (try ~ -65 turns as first guess
                                  i.e.  phase 0 (-65*360)  )
- a left shift ( lshift 130 as first guess )
    This last solution creates large baseline distortions.


Finally,
This code uses the library cache_mad.c which is the code for accessing
Gifa data-files.
This code is here for convienence, you can use it.
I give this code freely, it is considered
as Public Domain, so you can use it, adapt it, modify it, etc...



I hope this helps

